readme.md, before:

# OLIK #

![Version](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/olik.svg)
[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/Memeplexx/olik.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/Memeplexx/olik.svg?branch=master)
[![Coverage Status](https://coveralls.io/repos/github/Memeplexx/Olik/badge.svg?branch=master)](https://coveralls.io/github/Memeplexx/Olik?branch=master)
![Package Size](https://badgen.net/bundlephobia/minzip/olik)
![Dependency count](https://badgen.net/bundlephobia/dependency-count/olik)

## Manage state **in-line** using a **curated**, **consistent** set of state-update APIs.  
With bindings for ***[Vanilla](https://memeplexx.github.io/olik/docs/vanilla-js)***,
***[React](https://memeplexx.github.io/olik/docs/read)***, and
***[Angular](https://memeplexx.github.io/olik/docs/angular)***

---

#### 🌈 **SET UP**
Initializing your store couldn't be simpler and integration with the **[Redux Devtools extension](https://github.com/zalmoxisus/redux-devtools-extension)** is automatic.
```ts
const select = set({
  username: '',
  favorite: {
    foods: new Array<string>(),
    hobbies: new Array<{ id: number, name: string }>(),
  },
});
```  
#### ✍️ **WRITE STATE** 
Writes consist of a **selection** from the store followed by an **action** and state-updates are **described** for you. 
```ts
select(s => s.username)              // type: 'select(username).replace()'
  .replace('Terence');               // replacement: 'Terence'

select(s => s.favorite.foods)        // type: 'select(favorite.foods).insert()'
  .insert(['Indian', 'Sushi']);      // insertion: ['Indian', 'Sushi']

select(s => s.favorite.hobbies)      // type: 'select(favorite.hobbies).whereOne().patch()'
  .whereOne(s => s.id).eq(3)         // query: 'id === 3',
  .patch({ name: 'coding' });        // patch: { name: 'coding' }
```
#### 🔍 **READ STATE**
State can be **read** from, **listened** to, and expensive derivations can be **memoised**.
```ts
select(s => s.favorite.hobbies)
  .read()

select(s => s.favorite.hobbies)
  .onChange(e => console.log(e));

const derivation = derive(
  select(s => s.foods),
  select(s => s.hobbies),
).usingExpensiveCalc(
  (foods, hobbies) => {
    /* ...some calculation... */
  }
)
```
#### 🥚 **NEST STORES**
Each component's state can be managed and debugged with or without your application store.
```ts
select = setNested({                  // applicationStoreState = {
  title: '',                          //   /* ... */
  description: '',                    //   nested {
  done: false,                        //     TodoComponent: {
}, {                                  //       1: { title: '', description: '', done: false }
  storeName: 'TodoComponent',         //     }
  instanceName: todoId                //   }
}                                     // }

select(s => s.done)                   // type: 'select(nested.TodoComponent.1.done).replace()'
  .replace(true);                     // replacement: true
```

Commit message:

update to findCustmo and filterCustom APIs

readme.md, after:

# OLIK #

![Version](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/olik.svg)
[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/Memeplexx/olik.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/Memeplexx/olik.svg?branch=master)
[![Coverage Status](https://coveralls.io/repos/github/Memeplexx/Olik/badge.svg?branch=master)](https://coveralls.io/github/Memeplexx/Olik?branch=master)
![Package Size](https://badgen.net/bundlephobia/minzip/olik)
![Dependency count](https://badgen.net/bundlephobia/dependency-count/olik)

## Crystal-clear state-management

NOTE: The below code uses Olik without a framework,
however there are also bindings for ***[React](https://memeplexx.github.io/olik/docs/read)***, and
***[Angular](https://memeplexx.github.io/olik/docs/angular)***

#### 🌈 **SET UP**
Initializing your store couldn't be simpler and integration with the **[Redux Devtools extension](https://github.com/zalmoxisus/redux-devtools-extension)** is automatic.
```ts
const select = set({
  username: '',
  favorite: {
    foods: new Array<string>(),
    hobbies: new Array<{ id: number, name: string }>(),
  },
});
```  
#### ✍️ **WRITE STATE** 
Writes consist of a **selection** followed by an **action** allowing state-updates to be **described** for you. 
```ts
select(s => s.username)              // type: 'select(username).replace()'
  .replace('Terence');               // replacement: 'Terence'

select(s => s.favorite.foods)        // type: 'select(favorite.foods).insert()'
  .insert(['Indian', 'Sushi']);      // insertion: ['Indian', 'Sushi']

select(s => s.favorite.hobbies)      // type: 'select(favorite.hobbies).whereOne().patch()'
  .whereOne(s => s.id).eq(3)         // query: 'id === 3',
  .patch({ name: 'coding' });        // patch: { name: 'coding' }
```
#### 🔍 **READ STATE**
State can be **read** from, **listened** to, and expensive derivations can be **memoised**.
```ts
select(s => s.favorite.hobbies)
  .read()

select(s => s.favorite.hobbies)
  .onChange(e => console.log(e));

const derivation = derive(
  select(s => s.foods),
  select(s => s.hobbies),
).usingExpensiveCalc(
  (foods, hobbies) => {
    /* ...some calculation... */
  }
)
```
#### 🥚 **NEST STORES**
Each component's state can be managed and debugged with or without your application store.
```ts
select = setNested({                  // applicationStoreState = {
  title: '',                          //   /* ... */
  description: '',                    //   nested {
  done: false,                        //     TodoComponent: {
}, {                                  //       1: { title: '', description: '', done: false }
  storeName: 'TodoComponent',         //     }
  instanceName: todoId                //   }
}                                     // }

select(s => s.done)                   // type: 'select(nested.TodoComponent.1.done).replace()'
  .replace(true);                     // replacement: true
```
